AP203 (Application Protocol 203): Describes the 3D-model’s topography, geometry, and configuration management data. 

https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GOVPUB-C13-6fc146407a35fc7437911436b4312fff/pdf/GOVPUB-C13-6fc146407a35fc7437911436b4312fff.pdf


However, little has been done in terms of developing standard representations that specify assembly information and knowledge.
Rachuri et al, Journal of Computing and Information Science in Engineering MARCH 2006

Object-Oriented Representation of Electro-Mechanical Assemblies Using UML
US National Institute of Standards and Technology

The component composition of the assembly is modeled using the part-of relationship. An Assembly is decomposed into sub-assemblies and parts. 
A Part is the lowest level component which cannot be further decomposed. The diagram shows that an assembly or a subassembly is made up of at
least two parts.

Each assembly component, whether subassembly or part, is made up of one or more features, represented in the model by the OAMFeature class, 
where OAM refers to Open Assembly Model. The details of the OAMFeature definition are described in the package OAMFeature. The Assembly and
Part classes are sub-classes of the NIST-CPM Artifact class, inheriting its definition. OAMFeature is a sub-class of the NIST-CPM Feature class.


Assembly feature is defined as an element to specify the relationships between a pair of assembled components. For example, a hole and a cylinder
are typical assembly features, which represent the physical connections between a bearing part and a shaft part.

Assembly Features, which represent a region of a component, that is of interest
in the assembly context. Assembly features may have (i) a shape-aspect (super
class) as defined in 10303, and (ii) an assembly-feature-association. The assembly
feature associations and the assembly features describe the details of the
component’s associations

An Artifact refers to a product or one of its components. It is the aggregation of Function, Form and Behavior.
Form is the aggregation of Geometry and Material. In addition, an Artifact has
attributes of Specification and Feature. Specification refers to the general information
that contains all the design requirements pertaining to the artifact’s function or form.
Feature represents any information in the Artifact that is an aggregation of Function
and Form; purely geometric constructs are not treated as features in the NIST-CPM.


ParametricAssemblyConstraint represents the parametric assembly constraints
of assembly feature associations. It is used to specify explicit geometric
constraints between artifacts of an assembled product. The parametric assembly
constraints are intended to control the position and orientation of artifacts in an
assembly. Parametric assembly constraints are defined in ISO 10303 Part 108
(under ballot) and a brief description is given in the next section.


Assembly as Bill of Materials
Assembly as Parts List Tree

The BOM data structure is used to represent the assembly aspects of a product structure.
It includes only one instance of a single product definition for each kind of product that
participates in the assembly structure. A part list structure is a specific form of a bill-of-
material that can be represented by a tree (guided by the BOM’s DAG structure). A bill-
of-material structure may require a more general DAG. The parts list data structure
individualizes the relationship between lower-level parts of the product structure with
higher-level assemblies in which they are contained.


Bom
    Assembly1
        Subassembly1.1
        Piecepart1.2
        ...
    Assembly2
        SubAssembly2.1
            SubAssembly2.1.1
            SubAssembly2.1.2
            ...
        
BomEntry
    HierarchyPosition
    CatalogNumber
    LocalName
    CADFileURL
    Count  

Bom
    Name
    Id
    AssemblyFileURL
    DocumentManagementURL
